In this video, we’ll be talking about how
you can make sure that the materials you
create are accessible for everyone. A lot of
the time when we talk about
free content online like OER, we say that
it’s accessible because you can literally
“access” it,
but today’s video is not about whether you
can click through to read a news article or
look at social media posts without logging
in. No, this video is about digital
accessibility,
or the set of processes and practices that
you can use to make sure that anyone in your
potential
audience can fully engage with your work
online.
Making your work accessible helps every
possible downstream user who
might want to access it, have a better
chance of learning and benefiting from what
you’ve created.
This is especially important for open
content,
because anyone in the world can technically
access your work,
but we want everyone to also be able to get
the same value out of that material.
Plus, making your work accessible helps
those readers, listeners, and others
to feel included and to know that their
needs are being considered by peers like you
who are creating and sharing content for
free online.
Remember: everyone benefits here:
Creating educational podcasts with
downloadable transcripts can be useful both
for listeners who prefer to read along or
take notes on what they’re listening to,
and for those who are hard of hearing or
deaf.
And using headings in your text-based
projects makes it easier for sighted users
to skim through
the sections you included and get an
overview of your content, while also
providing more context
for those who need to use a screen reader to
interpret the text you’ve shared online.
So, how do you make your projects
accessible?
The Web content accessibility guidelines
include a really useful set of principles
for tracking
digital accessibility: they say that content
should be Perceivable, Operable,
Understandable,
and Robust (which nicely translates down to
the acronym POUR). Let’s go through these
together,
and talk about specific tips for how you can
meet these principles in your own work:
First, content should be Perceivable: or,
users should be able to actually
perceive the content in some way. For
example, if a reader can’t physically
see the text on a page, that text should be
presented in basic formatting that allows a
screen reader to “read off” the text
audibly. If there are a lot of images in the
text,
alternative text and captions should provide
enough context for readers to understand
everything presented within that image. For
videos, you might provide captions for
those who can’t otherwise perceive the
audible aspects of your video.
And for podcasts or audio-heavy video
projects, you might also provide a
transcript with headings
and speaker tags so your audience can follow
along with who is speaking and how the
content
of your podcast or video is organized.
Next, content should be Operable: or, users
should be able to navigate, interface with,
and properly process your content.
For text-based projects, this is usually
handled through headings, which provide
structure and
outline to your text visually, while also
serving as a machine readable outline for
screen readers.
You don’t want to just make text 24 point
font and bold to make it look like a
heading:
you should also use the actual heading tools
built into your word processor of choice
to denote what the sections in your text
are. For audio and video projects, this
might mean
you put in pauses so your audience has time
to process and engage with your material… or
it could
be as simple as using a tool to share your
work that allows pausing, rewinding, and
navigating
through sections... Sort of like when you’re
listening to a Youtube video, and you
realize
you lost track of where you are, so you hit
the “go back 5 seconds” button to rewind a
bit.
And then there are links! When you share
links out to other places in a text
document, you should
use descriptive links, or in other words,
the linked text should describe where the
link goes.
A “click here” link doesn’t really help
people understand what they’re clicking on,
and for folks who use screen readers, they
have an option to read off all the links on
a page.
If all of the links say “click here,” that’s
even more confusing than it is helpful.
Instead, have a descriptive link like "here
is a link to our blog " or
"read up on the topic of accessible
content."
After Operable, we have “Understandable”
content: or,
you should present information in a way that
your users are able to understand.
Sounds simple, right? This might have to do
with the content itself or the interface
it’s presented within.
The biggest point here for your OER projects
I want to focus on is content level:
who is your audience? What is their
education level? And how can you make sure
that the information you share
is clear, understandable, and has a solid
enough scope for your audience to understand
what
is being communicated? You don’t have to
make everything understandable to everyone;
however,
thinking about who your major audience is
and what context they need in order to
appreciate
your work? That’s pretty important.
And finally, content should be Robust: or,
various tools and assistive technologies
should be able to “read” your work.
Remember how I mentioned using headings and
descriptive links to help screen readers
parse
out what your documents say? That is part of
this section as well.
Make sure that the alternative text you
provide for images in your documents
actually describes the purpose of the image
it stands in for, and if the image is too
large,
be sure to provide a longer image
description in the text surrounding it. For
example,
if you have an image that shows a process
like mitosis in action, you’d want to
describe that
process, the steps, and what it looks like
in simple text as well, both to supplement
the alternative text for the image, and to
help explain what is going on in the image
in general.
For headings, I already mentioned that you
should use the heading tool built into
your word processor to mark where headings
are.
But you also want to make sure that the
headings follow a logical order.
If I have a grocery list and the title
"grocery list" is a heading 1, for example,
the section for produce should be a heading
2, and the section for fruits should be a
heading 3
under that. If I want to go communicate that
a heading is of the same level as another,
like boxed goods in contrast to produce, I
would set boxed goods to Heading 2 as well.
Robust is really the section for “do what we
said in the other sections, and do it
well,” so when you’re thinking about making
your content accessible in a way that is
also robust,
remember you can get help here.
So! Now that we’ve gone over the 4 sections
of POUR,
what can you do to make sure you’re being
accessible with your projects? Here are some
general tips:
First, start with an outline, a script, or
another way of keeping yourself on task with
your project.
This can help you put together good section
headings or
otherwise just have a solid outline that
your audience can follow along with.
Second, keep in mind accessibility from the
start of your project. Don’t wait until the
end to fix all your links and check that
your headings follow each other logically.
If you
start out with the POUR tips in mind, you’ll
save yourself a lot of work down the road.
Next, make sure that you actually create
captions or transcripts for any media
projects. You might
create these from your base script that I
mentioned earlier, or you might need to
draft them from scratch. But don’t forget
them! Auto-generated captions are not good
enough,
especially if your project is focusing on a
scientific topic that uses subject specific
terms.
And remember, you can always ask for help!
There are great support people in your
department,
in your library, and elsewhere on your
college campus that can support you with
making sure your
work is accessible from the start. So don’t
feel like you have to do this all alone.
You don't!
Thank you for watching! You can find
additional readings and resources for
creating accessible
materials in the description below,
including handouts, videos, and webpages
I’ve compiled for
you. This video by Abbey Elder is available
under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
license. Feel
free to adapt or reuse it as you see fit,
and best of luck creating your own
accessible projects!